---
name: IS 445 HW8
tools: [Python, altair, vega-lite]
image: assets/pngs/is445hw8.png
description: This is HW 8 for IS 445
custom_js:
  - vega.min
  - vega-lite.min
  - vega-embed.min
  - justcharts
---


# IS 445 HW8

I am using the same dataset as I did in HW7, which is the license data.

## Plot

---
***Plot 1***

<vegachart schema-url="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/json/is445hw8-1.json" style="width: 100%"></vegachart>

***Viz1*** shows the distribution of license types in the dataset, and provides a clear comparison of the count of each license type in a bar plot.

The x-axis is `License Type`, which means that the x-axis will display the different license types as categorical data.
The y-axis is `Count`, which means that the y-axis will display the counts of each license type. The axis is also in log scale to deal with data that has a wide range of values, as it can make it easier to visualize and compare different magnitudes.
I did not add a colormap to this plot because colors in bar plots are not a must, users are still able to differntiate types of licenses.

The data `Count` was obtained through grouping of `License Type` in the dataframe.

This visualization was the same one I used in [HW7](https://starboard.gg/nb/nmS7XIk), just transforming the code from `js` to `python`.

---

***Plot 2***

<vegachart schema-url="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/json/is445hw8-2.json" style="width: 100%"></vegachart>

***Viz2*** shows the comparison of average effective duration (in days) on each type of licenses.

The x-axis is `License Type`, which means that the x-axis will display the different license types as categorical data.
The y-axis is `Average Effective Duration (Days)`, which means that the y-axis will display the average effective duration of a type of license in days.
I also sorted the type of licenses by the length of the duration, and a color scheme was used where the darker the color, the longer the duration is (The duration was used as the color variable).
In order to let viewers see the actual number of the average duration, I added a tooltip so that whenever users hover over a bin, it shows the data point (containing the `License Type` and the `Average Effective Duration (Days)`). This is an interactive feature that I think might be helpful.

The `Average Effective Duration (Days)` was obtained through subtracting `Expiration Date` with `Effective Date`, and grouping by `License Type` to get the mean/average of all types.

This plot is an extend work of my [HW7](https://starboard.gg/nb/nmS7XIk) plot2. In the previous work, I mentioned that I hoped to find out the relationship between license types and expiration date.

---

## The Data & The Analysis

<div class="left">
<!-- {% include elements/button.html link="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/UIUC-iSchool-DataViz/is445_data/main/licenses_fall2022.csv" text="The Data" %} -->
{% include elements/button.html link="https://github.com/UIUC-iSchool-DataViz/is445_data/raw/main/licenses_fall2022.csv" text="The Data" %}
</div>

<div class="right">
{% include elements/button.html link="https://github.com/50206richie/UIUC_IS_445/blob/main/python_notebooks/is445hw8.ipynb" text="The Analysis" %}
</div>

